As I mentioned in an earlier lesson,
one of the benefits of
using statistical clustering is that it
can utilize a large number of variables.
However, if a large set of variables
is used in a clustering process,
it can become difficult to understand
the basis of the segmentation.
This also makes it difficult to make
decisions based off the results.
So even though you can use
a larger number of variables to
create your clusters,
sometimes it makes sense to try to
aggregate some of those variables.
This way, it can be easier
to understand the basis for
forming the clusters, and easier for
you as the analyst to communicate
the story behind the analysis.
For example, say a product buyer for
a retail chain
is trying to understand which product is
best allocated to a given store group.
It's possible that this group
could be based on something
like 27 different demographics,
which can make this a challenge.
But on the other hand,
if they know that a store is in a high
income college educated urban area,
they can now make more intelligent
buying and product allocation decisions.
It's much more helpful if
the variables are around a theme or
concept rather than individual metrics.
That's why services like Experian come
up with cutesy types of names to help
identify their consumer segmentation
product, like Status Seeking Singles,
Hispanic Harmony and
Golden Year Guardians.
So in statistics,
there are methodologies that
will do what we just described.
These are called variable
reduction procedures.
Essentially what they do is reduce
the number of observed variables
into a smaller number of what we
might call artificial variables or
principal components
that will account for
most of the variance in all
of the observed variables.